Oclgrind
========

About
-----
This project implements a virtual OpenCL device simulator, including
an OpenCL runtime with ICD support. The goal is to provide a platform
for creating tools to aid OpenCL development. In particular, this
project currently implements utilities for debugging memory access
errors, detecting data-races and barrier divergence, collecting
instruction histograms, and for interactive OpenCL kernel debugging.
The simulator is built on an interpreter for LLVM IR. This project was
originally created by James Price and Simon McIntosh-Smith at the
University of Bristol.

Binary releases can be found on the GitHub releases page:

  https://github.com/jrprice/Oclgrind/releases


Build dependencies
------------------
To build this project, you will need LLVM and Clang 13.0 (or newer)
development libraries and headers. If you build LLVM from source, it
is recommended to enable optimizations to significantly improve the
performance of Oclgrind (set `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` to `Release` or
`RelWithDebInfo`).

You will need to use a compiler that supports C++17. Python should
also be available in order to run the test suite.


Building on Linux and macOS (CMake)
-----------------------------------
The recommended method of building Oclgrind is via CMake.

When configuring the CMake build, you may be prompted to supply a
value for the `LLVM_DIR` parameter (this shouldn't be necessary if
LLVM is installed in a standard system location). This should be set
to the directory containing your LLVM installation's
`LLVMConfig.cmake` file (typically either
`${LLVM_ROOT}/lib/cmake/llvm` or `${LLVM_ROOT}/share/llvm/cmake/`).
If Clang is installed separately to LLVM, then you may also be
prompted to supply a path for the `CLANG_ROOT` parameter, which should
be the root of your Clang installation (containing the `bin/`, `lib/`
and `include/` directories).

A typical CMake command-line might look like this:

    cmake ${OCLGRIND_SOURCE} \
          -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo \
          -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=${INSTALL_ROOT} \
          -DLLVM_DIR=${LLVM_ROOT}/lib/cmake/llvm

where `${OCLGRIND_SOURCE}` is the path to the root directory
containing the Oclgrind source code, `${LLVM_ROOT}` is the path to the
LLVM installation, and `${INSTALL_ROOT}` is the desired installation
root directory (this can be omitted if installing to system
directories).

Next, build and install with make:

    make
    make test
    make install

If installing to a non-system location, you should add the `bin/`
directory to the `PATH` environment variable in order to make use of
the `oclgrind` command. If you wish to use Oclgrind via the OpenCL ICD
loader (optional), then you should create an ICD loading point by
copying the `oclgrind.icd` file from the build directory to
`/etc/OpenCL/vendors/`.


Building on Windows
-------------------
Building Oclgrind on Windows requires Visual Studio 2017 (or newer).

When configuring the CMake build, you may be prompted to supply a
value for the `LLVM_DIR` parameter. This should be set to the
directory containing your LLVM installation's `LLVMConfig.cmake` file
(for example `C:\Program Files\LLVM\lib\cmake\llvm`). If Clang is
installed separately to LLVM, then you may also be prompted to supply
a path in the `CLANG_ROOT` parameter, which should be the root of your
Clang installation (containing the `bin/`, `lib/` and `include/`
directories).

You should add the `bin` directory of the Oclgrind installation to the
`PATH` environment variable in order to make use of the `oclgrind`
command. If you wish to use Oclgrind via the OpenCL ICD loader
(optional), then you should also create an ICD loading point. To do
this, you should add a `REG_DWORD` value to the Windows Registry under
one or both of the registry keys below, with the name set to the
absolute path of the `oclgrind-rt-icd.dll` library and the value set
to 0.

Key for 32-bit machines or 64-bit apps on a 64-bit machine:
`HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Khronos\OpenCL\Vendors`

Key for 32-bit apps on a 64-bit machine:
`HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Wow6432Node\Khronos\OpenCL\Vendors`


Usage
-----
The recommended method of running an application with Oclgrind is to
use the `oclgrind` command, for example:

    oclgrind ./application

This command will make it such the only OpenCL platform and device
available to your application is Oclgrind. If you need more control
over platform selection then installing an ICD loading point for
Oclgrind will cause it to appear when an application calls
`clGetPlatformIDs()`, alongside any other OpenCL platforms installed
on your system.

If it encounters any invalid memory accesses, Oclgrind will
report the details to stderr, for example:

    Invalid write of size 4 at global memory address 0x1000000000040
        Kernel:  vecadd
        Entity:  Global(16,0,0) Local(0,0,0) Group(16,0,0)
        store i32 %tmp9, i32 addrspace(1)* %tmp15, align 4
        At line 4 of input.cl
          c[i] = a[i] + b[i]

Since it is interpreting an abstract intermediate representation and
bounds-checking each memory access, Oclgrind will run quite slowly
(typically a couple of orders of magnitude slower than a regular CPU
implementation). Therefore, it is recommended to run your application
with a small problem if possible.

To enable an interactive, GDB-style debugging session, supply the `-i`
flag to the oclgrind command, or export the environment variable
`OCLGRIND_INTERACTIVE=1`. This will cause Oclgrind to automatically
break at the beginning of each kernel invocation, and upon
encountering an invalid memory access. Type `help` for details of
available commands.

For more detailed information about using Oclgrind please visit the
GitHub Wiki:

  https://github.com/jrprice/Oclgrind/wiki/


Contact
-------
If you encounter any issues or have any questions, please use the
GitHub issues page:

  https://github.com/jrprice/Oclgrind/issues
